CSE 111 Proposal for a Student Chosen Program

    (This is a proposal. All proposals are written with our best
    knowledge at the beginning of a project. As we progress from the
    beginning to the end of a project, we gain more knowledge, and we
    change some of our proposed ideas. This is part of completing any
    project and is fine.  However, we still must write a proposal so
    that our teachers or supervisors know what we intend to do. Please
    answer each of the following questions to the best of your
    knowledge.)

Author: Kevin Cross Minchakpu
Instructor: CJ Waisaith

1. What is the title of your program?
Community Health Data Analyzer and Visualizer

2. What real-world problem will your program address or help to solve?

Public health educators and community advocates often collect extensive survey or regional 
data regarding community health metrics (such as vaccination rates, malaria incidence, or 
sanitation access across different districts). However, raw data in CSV formats can be 
difficult to interpret quickly.
This program will address this by processing community health datasets, calculating critical 
health indicators, identifying high-risk areas that require urgent educational intervention, 
and generating clear visual charts to present to stakeholders.


3. What will you learn from developing this program?
By developing this program, I will learn how to:
•Use the pandas library to filter, clean, and aggregate real-world data rows. 
•Use matplotlib to programmatically generate clear data visualizations (like bar charts and trend lines). 
•Properly structure a data pipeline into testable, reusable functions that handle parameters and return data structures rather than relying on global variables. 
•Write effective unit tests using pytest for data-transformation logic. 

4. What Python modules will your program use?

•pandas (for data manipulation and dataset filtering) 
•matplotlib.pyplot (for generating data visualization charts) 
•csv (for verifying file structures)
•pytest (for testing the analytical core logic) 


5. List the names of functions you will need?

Following the requirement that the most reusable and testable functions should take parameters 
and return results instead of getting direct user input or printing: 

a. load_health_data(file_path: str) -> pandas.DataFrame
oTask: Safely loads a CSV file into a pandas DataFrame and returns it.
b. calculate_risk_score(incidence_rate: float, prevention_rate: float) -> float
oTask: Pure mathematical calculation that takes health rates and returns a calculated regional priority or risk score. Highly testable.
c. filter_high_priority_zones(data: pandas.DataFrame, threshold: float) -> pandas.DataFrame
oTask: Filters the DataFrame to return only the regions or districts that exceed the specified health risk threshold.
d. generate_health_summary_chart(data: pandas.DataFrame, output_image_path: str) -> None
oTask: Takes the processed data and generates/saves a bar chart visualization of the health metrics.
e. main() -> None
oTask: Orchestrates the program flow, handles user text interaction/input, and calls the processing modules. 


6. List the names of the test functions you will write.

According to the Instructions, I am required to test at least two functions using pytest. Because pure 
logic functions are the easiest to test, I will target the core data transformation functions: 
•test_calculate_risk_score()
oTask: Asserts that calculate_risk_score returns the correct mathematically expected priority score when given various mock pairs of health rates (including edge cases like 0).
•test_filter_high_priority_zones()
oTask: Passes a small, controlled mock DataFrame to filter_high_priority_zones and uses assertions to verify that it correctly filters out low-risk rows and retains only the expected high-priority records.
